What would make someone want to
move from California to become
a middle school teacher
in one of the poorest
areas of Baltimore, Maryland?
Take a look.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Go over to your worksheet now.
Can you read that question up
at the top nice and loud for us?
Hi.
My name is Wyatt Oroke,
but my kids call me Mr. O.
And I'm the humanities teacher
at City Springs Elementary
Middle School in Baltimore.
There are neighborhoods
within Baltimore
that have been under-resourced
and underserved
for centuries based on
political decisions made,
be it segregated
housing or redlining
certain neighborhoods.
And so what that has led
to is that our students
come from the highest poverty
rates out of any school
in Baltimore City.
Since I've been
teaching, I've had
students who have been
homeless every single year.
I lost a student
to gun violence.
I've had a couple students
give birth to children.
One of them went into
labor in my classroom.
And so for me, it's trying
to show as much empathy
as I can, and just
be a listening ear.
A lot of times, what
our students like
is just someone to hear them.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Growing up in Baltimore
has been very challenging.
It just made me strong
and independent.
And my mother always told
me to be independent.
Baltimore has a lot of
people with big dreams.
I want to graduate
college so that I
can change a lot of things.
Our principal, our school
staff, all our teachers really
love our students.
And having them function from
that strong place of love
has meant that our students
get a lot of support
on a daily basis.
I buy a lot of independent
reading books for my students.
I believe that the smartest
people in the world
carry a book with
them at all times.
And that's what I
tell my students.
So anytime a kid asks me
if they can get a book,
I'm always like, yeah, I
can go on Amazon right now
and order it.
That's important to me.
There are so many times
where I wish I could do more.
You know, I wish I could say
that all my middle schoolers
who graduated are
still in high school.
That's not the case.
I wish I could say
every family that's
asked me for help I've been
able to provide that help for.
And that's not the case.
I can't sleep a lot
at night because I
think so much about my students
and what they're going through,
and whether I did enough
for them that day.
Teaching is an honor.
I know that my community
here in Baltimore
has given me the responsibility
to educate their children.
And that is something I
don't take lightly at all.
I want to go to my dream
college, UCLA, and be a doctor.
I want to become a
photographer and video editor.
--to become a contractor.
I want to be a
veterinarian so that I
can give back to my city.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
I do what it takes.
From Baltimore, Maryland,
please welcome Mr. O.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
[CHEERING AND APPLAUSE]
Hello, Mr. O.
Hi.
[CHEERING AND APPLAUSE]
You got me a mess already--
I know.
[INAUDIBLE]
Because we surprised you.
You didn't know you were
gonna be on the show.
I had no idea until minutes ago.
And then they were
like oh, by the way,
you're going to
sit in that chair
that you're watching right now.
I couldn't handle it.
Couldn't handle it.
Well, You're awesome.
You're amazing.
Thank you.
I mean--
The kids are amazing.
--you're amazing.
It's the kids.
It's all the kids.
[APPLAUSE]
So-- and you know,
I love teachers.
And you say that teaching
there has changed you.
How so?
I've been teaching
for five years now,
and it has shaped the way
I view the entire world.
It's shaped me as a person.
It's helped me understand
patience and resilience.
And the honor to teach
children every day
is something that is just
unbelievable that I've
been given that great honor.
And how do you motivate them?
So it's a 30% dropout
rate, is that right?
In the community
that I work with.
Yeah, in the community.
So how do you motivate them?
How do you keep them interested?
It's all about opening
doors for our students
and giving them points of access
that they might not normally
have, whether it's meeting
someone they wouldn't normally
get to meet, going
somewhere they
wouldn't normally get to go.
I believe the more access points
we can give them the better
experience they'll have.
So what are the
biggest challenges
facing you in City Springs?
Access to opportunities.
You know, it's 2017
in America, and we
have kids who don't have
equal access to opportunities.
And I get very emotional about
that because it's not fair.
It's not fair that we aren't
able to always provide
enough access to resources,
enough books for our students,
enough field trips
that they can go on.
And so access to opportunities
is a huge challenge
that we face every day.
And your goals for
your students are what?
Well, my short-term goal is to
get them those opportunities,
be it meeting a city
councilman, the state's attorney
came in and visited
them, so meeting
people who will change
their lives for the better.
Mhm.
And then long-term, it's to
have them give back to Baltimore
in the way that suits them best.
You know, Chantelle wants
to be a veterinarian,
and wants to open a veterinarian
hospital in Baltimore
because she says there are
stray dogs and cats that
need my help here,
or the students who
want to become
lawyers or doctors,
and they don't want to
do what across the world
or across the country, they want
to do it in their community.
Yeah.
And that's just amazing for me.
We're back with Wyatt, or Mr. O.
And his mom's in the audience.
You didn't even know
she was gonna be here.
I had no idea.
So, yeah.
What a great kid you raised.
He's a good guy.
All right, so when
you hear-- we just
watched the tape before you
came out about your students
and what they want to
be when they grow up.
You know, it must make
you think, well, then I
have to continue to
do this, because they
have to actually-- she
has to become a vet.
It's so true.
What happens in classrooms
today impacts what
happens in the world tomorrow.
Like, I honestly believe that.
If you fill your
classroom with love today,
you're gonna fill the
world with love tomorrow.
Yep.
And so--
[CHEERING AND APPLAUSE]
It's amazing.
That's so great.
And so true.
So true.
Well, thanks to Cisco
video technology,
we're gonna check
in with Jeannie
who's with some of your
students right now.
And-- hi.
[CHEERING AND APPLAUSE]
Oh my god.
Hey, everybody.
Oh, here's a latecomer.
Oh, that's [? Kane. ?]
Hi, [? Kane. ?] Oh my god.
Hi, [? Kane. ?] Hi, everybody.
All right, so I
wanted to ask you
guys what Mr. O means to you.
So tell me what he means to you.
To me, Mr. O is family.
And I've been here
since kindergarten,
and him and this
school really helped
me understand that what I do
now will impact my future.
Mr. O to me is very trustworthy.
I can trust him with all
my issues and challenges
that I go through at home.
And he give such
great advice that I
don't have to go through
those challenges anymore.
[APPLAUSE]
So--
--so it must mean
everything to you
to know you have this
guy in your corner,
and that he wants
to see you succeed.
That must really help you.
Yes.
It means everything to me
that Mr. O has my back,
and he's always here.
And Mr. O is helping
me achieve my big dream
and rewrite history
in our own way,
and show that people--
there's more to Baltimore
than meets the eye.
Mr. O, he's very important
to me because I don't have
the support system at home.
Like when I come from
school and go home,
I don't, like, really
have no one there.
So to have, like, Mr. O there
at school in the morning,
and like, it's just
very supportive.
And it's like I
appreciate it a lot.
And this is why we all
love him, because he's just
very supportive.
[APPLAUSE]
I love them so much.
All right.
Well--
[APPLAUSE]
Shutterfly cares about
supporting schools in need,
and they want to give your
school a check for $25,000.
[CHEERING AND APPLAUSE]
I think they have it there.
Oh my god.
[CHEERING AND APPLAUSE]
Oh, my god.